We Begin this Monday with increasing
international calls for Israel to scale
back its assault on Gaza and that
includes from its closest Ally the
United States us defense secretary Lloyd
Austin was in Tel Aviv on Monday to talk
to Israeli leaders about how they could
better protect civilians in the war
against Hamas a group considered a
terrorist organization by numerous
countries now according to the Hamas run
Health Ministry in Gaza the death toll
in the Gaza Strip has now surpassed pass
19,400 shocked and in grief these people
in Gaza Central City of derel Bala mourn
the loss of their loved ones and as in
many of the past Israeli strikes many of
those hit are
children scenes like these are
increasing pressure on is to protect
civilians a call also echoed by the US
defense secretary Lloyd
Austin protecting Palestinian civilians
in Gaza is both a moral duty and a
strategic
imperative so we will continue to stand
up for Israel's Bedrock right to defend
itself and we will also continue to urge
the protection of civilians during
conflict and to increase the flow of
humanitarian Aid into
Gaza that's important as Israel fights
to dismantle the Hamas ter ter is
infrastructure in Gaza Israel says it is
targeting Hamas
militants but the fighting has led to
one of the worst humanitarian crisis
ever in Gaza food and clean water has
become scarce for the strips over 2
million people and according to the UN
90% of the population has been
displaced I brought some water from our
neighbor over there I brought the water
and we needed dough we don't have a
single drop of water left there is
nothing at
all the head of the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees has warned that
gazans could start dying of hunger
disease and weak
immunity along with the eight entering
Gaza through the Rafa Crossing trucks
have also started entering from Israel
via Karam
Shalom but the UN says the conditions on
the ground are unsuitable for delivering
humanitarian supplies many see a halt in
fighting as the only solution an urgent
call that's now being echoed by many of
Israel's
allies all right for more now we want to
cross over to journalist Sammy soal in
Jerusalem Samy you followed that press
conference what more can you tell
us so uh secretary Austin was talking uh
not only about the uh humanitarian Aid
that has to go into the Gaza Strip and
not only about the Palestinian lives but
he was also talking is specifically
about the surgical strikes that Israel
has to adopt surgical strikes uh there
have been close talks between the the
parties and they went into details of
how the next stages should be at the
same time Austin was saying that he
doesn't give Israel any
deadlines and this was also reiterated
by yav Galant himself is that he was
saying that there's no ticking clock and
that the Israeli operation will continue
but they have agreed to further have a
closer coordination with the continuing
of the campaign he said that America is
giving advice to the Israelis and galand
was saying that they're listening to the
advice so they're listening to the that
advice are you seeing then Samy any
signs that Israel might be looking at
changing its strategy in
Gaza well I must say that on the ground
you really don't see it and you know
today there was a Human Rights Watch
report talking about Hunger as a
strategy and they talking about the
severe situation in the Gaza Strip the
strikes are continuing inside the the
Gaza Strip and uh it's not clear yet
when this actually will materialize into
a change in the way Israel is waging its
campaign in
Gaza this might be something that will
take
time the Prime Minister we know that he
is under a lot of pressure from outside
of the country what about domestic
pressure on Benjamin
Netanyahu
yeah what we've seen following the
killing of the three
hostages that there is a surge of anger
among the families of the hostages among
those who were
released uh they were saying that what
happened there is actually a reflection
that the military operating in the Gaza
Strip is not focused at looking for
hostages uh but rather focusing on a
different Mission which is a Revenge
Mission targeting Hamas and we've seen
these kind of
demonstrations at the same time I must
tell you that many people in Israel
believe that netan is committed to
continuing this war and he's attaching
his political future with the extension
of the war as this is something that can
play for him since the failure of the
7th of October is very much identified
with him a victory over Hamas could be
saving him politically in the Israeli
internal
Arena journalist Samy soal with the
ladies tonight from Jerusalem Samy as
always thank
you Tanya K is the W's correspondent in
Jerusalem and earlier I asked her
whether the growing International
pressure on Israel is having any effect
on the government
there well there's certainly more
International pressure but it doesn't
seem to have a visible impact yet on uh
the Israeli government here or their
decisions we've actually heard again
from prime minister Benyamin Netanyahu
over the weekend uh saying that for
Israel to achieve its goal uh it needs
to keep up the military pressure uh to
um uh topple Hamas uh to dismantle their
military capabilities and also to uh
release potentially more Israeli
hostages that are being held in Gaza now
we're expecting also uh in this regard
the US defense secretary Lloyd OS
arrived in Israel now uh to talk about
this he said uh that he will uh talk uh
with his counterparts about the Ironclad
commitment of the United States to
Israel uh in its War efforts but he also
said that there needs to be more uh done
to protect civilians in Gaza and that
more aid needs to be flowing into Gaza
now we've seen Israel has uh some sort
of reopened one of its crossing the Kum
Shalom Crossing at least uh to uh for
some more trucks to go in there but on
the ground uh uh humanitarian
organizations are saying in Gaza the
situation is as dire the impact is not
that felt because over 1.9 million uh
people gazans residents they have been
displaced most of them multiple times uh
during this war mainly now to the South
the Aid distribution is very uh
difficult and also the death toll is
mounting every
day a un Security Council vote on a
ceasefire resolution for Gaza set to
take place on Monday has reportedly been
postponed to allow further negotiations
as Israel continues its war against
Hamas in the territory Human Rights
Watch has accused it of using starvation
as a weapon the Rights Watch Dog says
that it has evidence that Israel is
deliberately starving civilians and
blocking deliveries of food water and
fuel into Gaza Israel denies the
accusations and has accused the group of
anti-Semitism my next guest is Bushra
khi she is from Oxfam and she joins us
from rala in the occupied West Bank it's
good to have you with us this evening um
Human Rights Watch watch accusing Israel
of committing war crimes saying that its
forces are deliberately blocking the
delivery of Aid such as water food and
fuel what's your take on this
accusation um it's important to
differentiate the Mandate that Human
Rights Watch and Oxfam have where a
humanitarian organization we deliver Aid
we work within an international
humanitarian law framework we don't make
determinations of war crimes or
investigate human rights VI viation we
monitor them so that they inform our
policy position but from what we know
before October 7th we know that Israel
was in great violation of its duties and
responsibilities towards gaza's
population as the main as the occupier
um it occupies Gaza it controls Gaza it
controls all the borders of Gaza um it
controls how much goes in and comes out
of Gaza whether that's people or goods
and that's before the 7th of October
that Siege was tightened uh on the 9th
of October
um in response to the atrocities of the
7th of October
um switching off electricity water uh
restricting Aid um and preventing fuel
from entering Gaza is collective
punishment and that does amount to war
crime um and using stration as a weapon
of War we also you know have evidence
from um crops being completely destroyed
uh the wheat Mill not able to the only
wheat Mill in Gaza not able to operate
um and currently we only have 5 to 10%
of needs being met with the delivery of
Aid inside Gaza all of this points to
grave violations violations of
international law where we have people
literally almost starving to death in
Gaza right now and let me ask you too
Israel says that it is doing everything
in its power to protect civilians in
Gaza is that the impression that you and
your team on the ground are
getting well that was another point I
wanted to answer in my in your prev
previous question is another thing that
points to um war crimes are the
indiscriminate nature of the attacks uh
we have seen an entire Health Care
System collaps we're talking about a c a
city of 2.2 million people this is a
large city it's very densely populated
there's over 30 hospitals um most of
them are are barely running uh if
running at all in the north it's the
situation is even more frightening we
have the situation at Kamal adwan um uh
hospital where it's been besieged and
have people inside trapped um we've
heard horrific reports from what's
happening in the north uh we know that
women are you know I mean we have a
complete Health Care collapse there's no
there's been tar targeted um attacks on
un shelters on bakeries on solar panels
um uh so all of this points to the
indiscriminate nature of um the attacks
over the course of the past two and a
half months in Gaza Miss KH let me ask
you too about um some videos that
serviced on Sunday sh Palestinians
chasing after um climbing onto moving
Aid trucks at the Rafa border crossing I
mean this looks like the picture of
desperation how would you describe the
current situation on the ground in
Gaza I'd like to if you permit me read a
quote from my brother-in-law who I spoke
to yesterday and I transcribed the
conversation with him um if I may
okay we've hit a point of complete
exhaustion there's simply nothing to eat
even if the war were to stop right now
it almost feels meaningless life itself
seems meaningless we're like the walking
dead devoid of Life Aid is scarce where
I'm staying now we have nothing no food
no electricity no water the effort to
find and break wood for fire just to eat
something is backbreaking even basic
needs like using the bathroom becomes a
challenge without water the Relentless
task of maintaining a fire is the most
draining thing I've been using garlic
cloves to treat my fever and flu because
medicine is nowhere to be found the
constant Buzz of the drones is
unbearable you don't understand it eats
in my bones it's so loud constantly
interrupting sleep and conversation yet
we find ways to cope we we joke and we
sing we still have hope but we need to
conserve energy of what comes next you
know what they say the
Afterparty Bu khi from Oxfam we
appreciate you taking the time to share
your thoughts and to share the thoughts
as well as others about the situation on
the ground there in Gaza thank you than
you thank
you for more on the situation in Gaza we
can now talk to Juliet tumar she's a
director of communications for the UN
Agency for Palestinian refugees and
joins us from the Jordanian Capital Aman
which borders Israel jilad Human Rights
Watch accusing Israel of committing war
crimes there saying its forces are
deliberately blocking the delivery of
Aid such as food and water has your
agency seen anything that would confirm
those very serious
accusations look while we are not at all
in a position at onra to determine
whether um it is a war crime or not what
I can tell you for sure is that food
fuel water and information they've all
been used as weapons of war um during
this um brutal brutal uh 70 days if you
recall for the first two weeks since the
war started there was a total hermetic
Siege on the Gaza Strip and nothing has
come in including food or water so do
you confirm then the allegations that uh
human uh Rights Watch level at
Israel like I said I'm not in a position
uh to confirm that I'm here to give you
the latest on the ground and what has
been happening since the beginning of
the war and there there has been serious
restrictions on access uh of
humanitarian assistance to the Gaza
Strip that also included um food Fuel
and water and since then there's been
very very little um of these critical
supplies allowed into Gaza and not
enough and um do not match at all the
overwhelming humanitarian needs on the
ground now Israel says it's doing
everything in its power to protect
civilians in Gaza is that the impression
that you are your team on the ground are
getting
currently well
136 um under colleagues have been killed
so far uh we have also reports that 70%
of um those killed in the Gaza Strip
since the war started are believed to be
women and children when it comes to
United Nations facilities Andra where I
work where I work we have recorded more
than 170 hits on our facilities
including those who uh we were using as
as shelters and in those uh incidents uh
we had uh at least uh 1,000 people
injured nearly 200 people killed and
these facilities are United Nations
facilities and they need to be protected
at all times including in times of
conflict by all parties
now the UN Security Council will vote on
another resolution calling for an urgent
and sustainable cessation of hostilities
in Gaza short of a ceas Fab do you see
any other option to get Aid into
Gaza there needs to be a ceasefire a
humanitarian ceasefire that will also
allow the United Nations and other uh
humanitarian agencies to bring in much
needed supplies without conditions uh
with a regular flow of basic supplies I
mean look we're talking about the basics
here people are coming to anra and
saying to us what am I going to do with
a can of beans because this is all I
have for the coming three days for me
and my children we are down to
delivering one bottle of water and a can
of tuna to a family of six or seven it's
that bad Julet tumar there director of
communications for the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees thank you very
much